This
episode of start up is brought to you by his Cox insurance specialize in customized insurance for small and
medium businesses of all
kinds Hiscox understands starting a new business takes
courage and they also get that No two businesses are exactly alike. That's why his caucus
offers flexible and smart solutions for small business owners trying to navigate the sometimes intimidating
and confusing world of
insurance you can learn more about his Cox insurance at cox dot com That's H I S Z O
X dot com or by calling your insurance agent Hiscox
encourage courage.
Hey
just a quick note if you're a gimlet
member or if you want to be one. Stay tuned we have a little something for you at the end of the show.
This
is startup. I'm Lisa Chow.
A few months ago we got an e-mail from a guy named Jason tomorrow.
I've got it here in front of me very direct Hello. We've raised
two million dollars and been featured in Tech Crunch's B.C. and Francisco Chronicle.
We now have three hundred fifty thousand dollars left in the bank which will last until the
end of
April we need to raise more money or we will die.
So we followed up with Jason and he and his co-founder Vincent cardinal agreed
to record themselves during this particular moment in their company's
life with a run out of money and close shop with the figure out how to turn things
around in time they didn't know we didn't know
either the result is a rare and intimate look inside one
startup and inside Silicon
Valley and we should warn listeners that occasionally include swearing
our producer Molly Messick tells their
story.
In
one of the first recordings Jason and Vincent send they're sitting
outside there in the backyard behind the commercial kitchen they rent which is also their company's headquarters.
It's a cramped spot shaded by bamboo and next to a couple of exhaust fans a place
they come to sometimes when they have important things to talk about south a little noisy as you'll
hear on the
tape today the thing they're talking about is their own salaries.
Jason talks are OK so I was pretty shocked to hear that you're speaking of the
sea of suffering like I don't understand really
what Cheney until you have been using more adamant about this
than I
have I mean it's a it's a it's the
self instance a little faint there. He says that'll save us a
thousand
dollars the company is called bento and it does on demand through delivery and
the problem Jason Vincent are facing is that almost a year into running it. They still haven't figured out how to turn
a profit. Vincent wants to cut his on followed by the more
time but Jason's not so
sure. Obviously
like from a dental standpoint I appreciate what you're
doing it makes me feel like I should do the same. It's just harder for me to do
the
same but you know it's not easy for you either of them really
to write your
own family for anything and from my C.V. I mean I almost want like talk you
out of
it I guess my thought is on
this I would rather continue to pay
ourselves and if we start getting close
to running out of money if things are looking optimistic.
Then we stop paying yourself. But at this point
like what if everything just
falls and saw the risk and then the why and the like then maybe
I'm
investing back in the US and more cash in the
bank on the tape right here. It sounds like Jason drums his fingers
on the
table. The reason it's a harder decision for Jason as he has two young kids and his
wife Sharon is a stay at home mom Vincent isn't married doesn't have children
but in the end it's Jason who gets one over after a lot of back and forth. He agrees to get
a salary he tells Benson OK I'm on
board for what you want. What do you want
to really want to cut your cuddles for you
have no ability to use her
salary like yeah I probably
need
it I probably need at
least six seven hundred dollars a week just to cover my
health insurance five years
earlier it was out of the you know the right house. Yeah
yeah
about thirty to forty
K. I will ride it
out that was one of the first conversations Jason
and Vincent recorded it happened a few months ago in February but to understand what they've been
through with Bento to understand the extremes they've experienced you have to know how they
started because it didn't begin like this was huddled
conversations about dwindling bank accounts. When they first started Bento it was like they'd been handed
a script for startup
success and they played their parts exactly right Jason Vincent met
recently and twenty fourteen through a website called founder dating kind of like Match dot com
for business
partners. Jason already had the idea for bento and he wanted to team up with someone he would be the
C.E.O. and in Vinson. He found a C.T.O. the chief technical
officer the two of them are kind of a study in
contrasts Jason's the optimistic one the California native who gave up a steady job in his
twenty's to spend a couple of years travelling around Asia Vincents an
engineer quieter the pragmatist. He grew up in New York in Rochester about the time he
was twenty
four he owned a house not far from his parents' place but it always wanted to run his own company.
And he figured he could do it in San Francisco. So he sold his
house packed his car booked a room on air you end up living there for a
year
Bentos business is Asian food
customisable bento boxes that they make in their own kitchen and then deliver.
Jason events and imagine the bento be a known brand like Chipotle a but instead of picking it up at
a restaurant. You'll open up an app and order it on your phone demand will be high enough that wherever you
are one of Bentos drivers will be
nearby the cars will hold bags for hot food in cold bags for cold
food individual pods of every dish that Bento offers and minutes after you place your
order it arrives. Sometimes it happens so fast that it feels like magic.
They launched on stage at a startup festival with two thousand people watching and pretty quickly they
raised a million and a half dollars in seed money.
Vincent says that at the time it all seemed incredible.
It was the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen I mean to see that much money come in so quickly to see
so many people so excited about an idea that was kind
of like OK this is my life for the next four five six years this is what
I came here to
do I was always nervous somebody was going to launch something similar to my idea
before I did this is Jason once that didn't happen then the reception
being really good people asking like what what are your expansion plans
and you know how quickly can you go to layer to this without us like yeah
sure you're just thinking like wow how fast can I ask and ironically nothing's going to go wrong it's going to be
like you know it's pretty steady line of like growth and funding and.
Bento did
grow when Jason and Vincent talk about the months after they launched they use words
like insatiable and crazy
and freaking every week they sold more Bentos than the week before three months
after launch they added a head chef an operations person and a new developer to work on their app.
They moved into a bigger kitchen. It was what they wanted it was what their investors
wanted growth equaled success and they were killing it.
But then came late August five and a half months after launch. That's when Jason got a report back from
his accountant. It was a regular monthly report showing here's how much we spent how much we are
and what our burn rate was and it was for the previous month
July was very late to get back July but we got it back and we
burned on a sale like seventy thousand dollars more than we
expected which is like thirty forty percent more and it was like whoa what happened.
The short answer to that question what
happened is that Jason and Vince and our tech guys tech guys who had started. What
was basically a restaurant there were a lot of details to manage Bento was hiring
cooks buying soft pans dispatching drivers they were ordering wild caught salmon
and avocados and Asian
pears they needed to take inventory make sure pricey ingredients weren't going to waste.
There were a lot of details. A lot of costs that Jason wasn't tracking closely.
And turn imagine with that day when you got that report that most of what you've been seeing this week over
week growth you thought everything was like totally going the way you wanted it
to so what did you feel. I mean almost it's almost
like a little
embarrassing because I should
have been watching that especially in like an
operational intensive business like this so like embarrassed that I hadn't done that before
scared I was to like where the problems were scared like was I going to be able to
find where the problems were.
Yeah. So it's just a lot of different thoughts. He wrote to Vincent to tell him about the report.
I was walking into work and I had I read it on my phone I just sort of one
time I mean my immediate reaction was like holy you know Holy
F..
It wasn't exactly a problem that they were spending more money than they were
making a lot of startups do that especially in the early stages when they're trying to get
customers but Jason and Benson had burned through way more than they planned in July
and August alone. They'd used up almost a third of the money they'd raised to make and deliver
a bento that sold for twelve dollars they were spending thirty two dollars.
I trust that whatever was happening was working in that we were I don't know maybe we're in one or
two dollars not fifteen or twenty dollars on every Bento the
unit economics said something horribly ridiculous like
that but maybe the worst thing about the spot they were in the weirdest thing was
that the more Bentos they sold the more money they lost. So if their sales went up to
go out of
business quicker growth no longer equaled success growth had become the enemy.
Vincent put aside his daily work on the engineering side overseeing the app and he and Jason dove into
the financials.
I was in our kitchen every day looking at the numbers talking to our chef figuring out what was going
on to get food costs under control that cut expensive dishes like ribs and dot com
See they let delivery times creep up they added a delivery charge and it
worked the price of the bento and the cost of making one started to even out.
I kept thinking like OK. Not bad man I mean do this we can cross this this
threshold and then there are three days where we managed to.
So we got to my positive opinion is this prevented or overall
that was per Bento then or they were fifty cents and there's a day we had a dollar for
like three days in a
row making money on a bento was a big deal an accomplishment but it didn't
last the days after that it just kind of fluctuates again back and forth between you know
negative fifty cents negative dollar loss and it was it was a difficult thing to control
and
maintain what all of this meant was that Bento couldn't make money with on demand delivery
dispatching a driver every time a customer pressed a button in the bento up. Jason and Vincent needed a
better way of predicting demand to reduce waste and keep costs under control so that
a couple of
things they added a new feature order ahead to let customers schedule their lunch or
dinner ahead of time instead of just clicking on the app when they got hungry. Jason and
Benson also started selling Bentos to catering startup companies that work as middlemen
between
restaurants and corporate clients delivering lunches for office workers there are a lot of them in San Francisco.
So Bento partnered with a few tears a conversation Jason and Vincent recorded
right around that time in advance the Larry. They're in a coffee shop up the street from the bento kitchen.
Jason speaks for his no we finally recently built order. We
finally know how to make money with
our wealth but we have no response. We know how to do. We've
got partnerships we've got
teetery we could leave this business is going to make money.
Very soon with a resounding that's what this is going to make
money that you disagree with
I have with enough time he says
that's shorthand for if we don't run out of money
first look at the
Koreans without look for additional work in terms of the
engineering which I would
have you know we've got we've
built so now it's about that's
key. You know like it's exciting.
Yeah it's exciting as usual.
Jason is focusing on the positive the catering
orders the promise of making money and as usual Vincent has his eye trained on
the warning signs the alarmingly small number of dollars in the bank account. And
also on that new order ahead option their customers aren't using
it which makes sense if you think about it if you could order lunch hours ahead as soon as you got
to work or later when you actually got hungry. Which one would you choose in order when you
got hungry and Bento would lose money every time.
But you. One week later events forced Jason into the Ensigns camp he
agrees things are really bad at Bento at this point they have about two hundred thousand
dollars left and they're burning through more than a hundred grand a month
and actually probably hit me the most last night when we got zero
cater
orders because.
Next week's going to be
awful without catering Bento sales are going in the wrong direction. Jason
and Vincent can't help looking backwards considering their mistakes.
Here's been sent overseas
starting with I was people
started thinking.
I hate to
say but this is why subject matter
experts make better founders
like what we have learned in the last year.
Basically tells us of the way we started the business is fucking
stupid but if we had been in restaurants or try
to similar business or works for us to knock it for three years
like we probably would have know all this and Bento would have just been
started basically where we are
today great. Yeah.
But ourselves in our efforts so now we can look like I mean I agree. A lot
of these groups
are in the community and I think you thought we could
only push here if I didn't go to work. I did but we
didn't really push through a lot of
it but I'm sorry
like I had to
have the first we have smart
people encouraging us.
I don't know
I
don't know what felt like it felt like we were
doing all the right things in the right
place with sales numbers. Falling they can't go back to investors
they just don't have a good enough story to tell the days in advance and talk through their options they
come up with a plan and then Jason had turned to his wife Sharon the two of
them don't usually talk that much about work. It only comes up when something big happens.
So after dinner when the kids are bad. Jason tells her end
was wasn't a great day.
Well.
We didn't get any.
Hearing orders for next week.
Not happen last night. And then weekly
concerned that.
Well yeah. The last
three weeks we've
been doing really well on catering which has been good and the
next
week is going to be
awful like really really awful.
And so I think we may set
off as my. I'm
everybody off
tomorrow with a researcher set off on demand.
And Shafter
out like terminal.
Yeah
I mean like close Bento now close then by the way I'm a cordless.
OK
And
then are still trying to lay figure out what exactly we would want to do but
we would basically lay off.
Everybody. With a salary.
Can you please explain
more what you're talking about. Because it sounds like you're closing down but. We're not closing
it down but we basically like becoming like a caring business.
In a catering business where me. Incentives
are still running it and so will still be like building software and tools and things to
like make the business more efficient but not like.
It is today.
He says they'd let go of their engineers and their marketing person and also some of the kitchen
stuff. Tomorrow. I mean it's not the kind
of thing that you want to procrastinate on.
The good thing is we have some money in the bank so like if we do all these
things and act quickly like we could still have two hundred thousand dollars in the
bank and that may be able to last us like four more months instead of
like four more weeks. Basically And if we wait.
You know it just it just gets worse.
The next morning Jason Vincent have an emergency call with their board member. David Silver
Glyde He's the C.E.O. of a small restaurant group based in San
Francisco a David Jason and
Vincent can hear So
OK they get to the point pretty quickly the sales haven't improved like they
hoped next week looks bad. And there's only enough money to keep the company going for eight more
weeks they're thinking about laying people off focusing on catering. What does he think they should do.
David asked a lot of questions. Ponder that for a
while in my mind it's a tough decision because you're
conceding that you can't raise on this
existing But the other is very different.
It's basically
just you're operating on operating a catering operation.
Even if you have the vision in the future of saying well here's where we want to be here.
We want to
do once you're down that path convincing investors to come back in
because you're going to pivot and change is going to be. I think an uphill
battle and here it starts to sound like David is saying it's just.
He can pay guys. This might be it. Maybe you should think about closing
Bento I don't want to fix that have.
I think a lot of it depends on what you guys want to do long
term. And where where you think you can get it
because investors are already saying you know there are attorneys already gone there not to be
upset either way.
But now is a good time to look and say before we really prolong the
inevitable. There's some cash in the bank which means that you
guys can get paid to why I mean here is the kind of pragmatic there's cash
in the bank which allows you to do an orderly line down to get paid while you do
it and there's no loose ends it all gets cleaned up nicely you guys don't feel
like you're stuck dragging it out for two or three months beyond its
death on paid or you can't move on can't go do something else.
Yeah I think that's really Mrs Benson talking
here. When I said that well the alternative here is that we we nicely shut down
and everyone gets severances and a move on with our lives right I
mean right now. I mean I'm glad you got to call me now you
guys are able to talk about this now rather than in forty five days because
then there's not a lot left in the bank the line down becomes that much more painful.
And you guys begin to resent the position you're in that much more because you
can't move on and you're stuck doing this for an extra you know whatever it
takes and you don't want to be in that position.
So I think and this is true which is what I said I didn't want to do
but if you guys feel you can't get it to where you need to be to
fundraise now is the time to make a decision. Not in thirty or forty five days.
So
when your board member makes the strong case for winding down your struggling startup. What do
you do. That's coming up after these words from our
sponsors.
Startup is brought to you by Ford Motor Company Ford recently brought a branch of the maker space tech
shop to Detroit because they understand that the best ideas don't always come when your work.
Well brick is the general manager at Tech
Shop the Tech Shop the open to the public do it yourself maker
space is the kind of think of it like the gym for people that like to make the vocal
come any day of the week of the seven days a week and then inside the building we have just
about any piece of equipment we could imagine to make just about anything you could dream
up that is crazy and so cool
that a Tech Shop Detroit Ford employees can mingle with other inventors whenever
inspiration strikes and perhaps even create something that wouldn't exist
otherwise you have people of all different backgrounds scattered throughout the
shop working on all kinds of different projects. But there sort of rubbing elbows. These are people that outside of
the space. Probably would never have cause to run into each
other you might have a graphic design student you know brimming with creativity
and goofy
ideas who function today thirty plus year. Tool and Die machinist
from the auto industry and where the two and a machinist might say this is what
this machine does the urge to walk up to and say What can the state do and the product is something that
neither of them would have been able to do
themselves for inspiring creativity both in and outside the office
good for dot com slash startup to learn
more this
episode of startup is brought to you by their desk the affordable height adjustable standing
desk solution. Now you've probably read studies that tell you that sitting down is killing
you in you may have run out and bought one of the numerous sitting
alternatives like those big inflatable balls for this weird treadmill or elliptical desks they're
super expensive and make you sweat even out of breath.
You may have also read studies that claim that sitting down is not killing you and is really
no worse than doing any other activity at work to take away your some. If you want to sit.
Sometimes you'll want to stand. It's OK to want both of those things. Enter their desk their
desk offers a variety of options you can
simply sit at the bird ask or raise the height. It takes three seconds and you're standing
or dancing around in place their desk makes it super easy to do all those things that humans
have evolved to do sit or stand when everyone. Plus very desk is affordable and
ships free in the forty eight
contiguous states. If you don't love your very best you can return it for a full refund within thirty
days very desk covers return shipping and even send someone to pick it up to learn
more go to very calm the A R I Desk dot
com They're at work
elevated
when we left off vendors board member had just given Jason and Vincent some stark advice.
He basically said this might be it. This might be the time to shut down the
company our producer my Messick picks it up there.
The conversation with David Silver glide didn't end the way it sounded it would with Bento
closing Jason just wasn't ready to make that decision. So we asked David for other options and David
said get your costs under control stop losing money on every sale see if you can increase revenue in
the next few
weeks so many choices every day but today we've got to get in the fall
a race
or it's three days after the phone call. Jason is in the bento kitchen where a staff of ten
is working on lunch
orders he invents and have a plan and it has ramifications for a lot of people who aren't
named Jason or
VINCENT There's a tall woman with reddish hair wearing kitchen clogs and tossing killed leaves in
a giant metal ball at the end of a long table a sushi chef turns out rolls with a
bamboo mat. The tall woman doesn't know yet that this is her last day at
Banta that's part of what we're going have to do to start laying
people off.
She actually can have a cover. This afternoon.
Yeah. So after this I'll go talk
with Vincent now that lunch is almost out the
door and. Will need to make some
hard decisions.
The
last are part of the plan to make Bento leaner and simpler no more dinner service. No
more on demand delivery customers won't be able to open up the bento app and get their Bento right
away instead. There'll only be that order ahead option customers
will have to use the app like a food schedule or order by ten am to get a bento at
lunchtime and finally Bento will double down
on catering partnerships. But try to work with more of those startups that pick up food
from restaurants and deliver it to offices and corporate events.
Jason and Vincent lay off twelve people they ask their two engineers to stop taking a salary for a couple of
weeks one engineer decides to leave. Jay think that's his own salary to
zero Vincents already been taking nothing for a couple of weeks.
I don't I don't think I ever saw that things would be this sticky. This
isn't that we'd be laying off half the kitchen staff taking
our salaries and having to make all these tough decisions. How
comfortable or uncomfortable are you with this reality.
I think I was uncomfortable with
it for a while I don't know when or
what changes you maybe it was a slow transition but I think I just got to the point where you realize this
is reality and I could
certainly throw in the towel and just kind of walk
away for you know you could try to stick it
out for the next one or two months and see if we can turn this around.
I don't know whether that that's blind face
or whether that you know whether that's
great I haven't figured out the difference yet. Honestly I'm not sure.
For the founders of a struggling startup there's a range of futures to imagine there's the rosy
vision with a fleet of fuel efficient cars deployed all across the city bearing Bento
decals and then there's failure at moments like
this when it's not clear which future is in store Vincent looks to other people's success
stories to starting it was on the call was
finding he likes to watch videos on You Tube with elan mask and Jeff Bezos talking about the
early days. Musk flirting with bankruptcy. Bezos personally sending off
Amazon orders and I would drive these things to use P.S.T.'s we get the last one we went
to the last
second those guys take risks and push hard but have hard work
and staying the course has very little to do with it after all plenty of people work long
hours and rack up debt and then they
fail in fact it's the more likely scenario there just aren't as many youtube
videos about
it by the time Jason and Vincent launched Bento there are already
a lot of companies doing on demand food delivery. Some are acting as middlemen between restaurants
and customers. Others have their own kitchens and investors were backing them in
the few months after Bento started an on demand food delivery company called
Sprigg raised forty five million dollars. Another one called Montreal raise eighty five million.
It's different now there's a lot less venture capital going into startups than there was a year ago.
Investors are more cautious.
They're not just looking for companies that can grow quickly. They're looking for companies that can show them. Here's how we're
going to make money and companies doing on demand are getting special scrutiny
in March right after Jason and Vincent did their layoffs one of the better known food delivery start ups in
San Francisco went out of
business a headline red spoon rocket shuts down amongst on
demand apocalypse behind pronouncements like that are real
experiences and real people like Sharon Jason's wife.
That was a Croat in Cambodia. That was in
Vietnam we took. Motorbiking got very very
last I met Sharon in Jason's apartment in Oakland where there's a wall covered in a picture of some trips
they took before they got married and they grew up in the same city Folsom
California. But they didn't start dating until after college when Jason suggested they
quit their jobs and travel Sharon was game. She's Korean American and for a long
time she wanted to teach in South Korea. So they spent a year on the move and then they settled in Seoul.
Even at that point Jason he wanted to have his own company. So it's been a big deal to see him get
Bento off the ground.
I don't know it's just it makes me so proud.
Sharon thinks back to a year ago when Jason was first pitching the
company when he launched bedtime on stage at the launch Festival last year I was
like ugly crying like I was just so proud of him and probably to start crying now.
I
don't mean voiced. Like waiting. It was
just
I just know how hard he worked and when he was on stage it was I was
just so proud of what I came up to I started crying and he was up so proud of you and it was
like before he even you know sold a bento I was just so excited.
I keep leaving that person like Curry got the other thing right now this is
really embarrassing. Well I mean
it's this person that you feel so close to care so much about who you know
work so hard and wants nothing more than to have his own business and it's. It's there
within reach here.
And he did a really good job presenting do so it's like oh good job because he had been rehearsing with me for
weeks so I knew exactly what he's going to say but that I saw him
was just like
bawling. To you like what it represents for him.
It just represented like his. Induction and to
this startup
world rather than you know thousands of people who have an idea and they want to
do something about it they don't really get to this point I feel like and he had gotten to that point
where it was like a real
thing and he was launching it on this huge you know
stage with all these people watching who were potentially be
customers and investors
and he was starting this company from our
bedroom but Sharon also tells me that the ups and downs of having a founder husband are getting
hard to
take when you think
about the idea of a bento closing with what comes in your
head to be honest
a little bit of relief.
A lot of sadness for
Jason even though he's
so logical about things that he
wouldn't he would be fine. Tell me why you'd be
really I don't know like we're going to have
a good steady income
again and we could possibly start saving to buy a house.
Do you think he knows that you'd feel a little bit relieved.
Yes I think if I told him I don't think he would I think he would laugh and but it wouldn't be
a
surprise if you really thought about
it since spent a lot just Sharon has learned how hard Jason can
work how driven he is and she loves that about him. She says it motivates
her but sometimes it also makes for a
lonely bra for Addie was born our second baby was born.
Jason was starting bento and when he started he was doing all the dispatch
meaning he was
working he would probably come home at eleven thirty P.M. every night and he would leave for work anywhere
from six AM to seven AM So he was working like fifteen hours a
day for months and that was like the hardest you
know and I only had one kid at the time but I was pregnant at. Time
also and so I think that's probably if
somebody asked me about my life with Jason as a founder that would be my one thing that I
would that I remember the most is just how hard it is with him working so much.
And that's why him specifically when he was home like one hour a day in the
morning. It's Friday morning in the bento kitchen four
days after the layoffs.
Bob Marley's coming through on the speaker and the back door was propped open to let in some cool air.
There's this knowledge and or. Jasmine
rice Bento five remaining chefs and cooks pick up the pace as the ordering deadline gets
closer
twenty customers have until ten o'clock to place their lunch orders and Jason steps out of his
office to count down to the end of the ordering window final they've sold thirty
seven better than they've done most days this
week overnight Jason has run some new numbers based on the cuts they've
made to breakeven the company needs to sell two thousand Bentos per
week including catering That means they have to more than quadruple their current
business a few weeks later I call Vinson to find out how things are
going OK so how are you. I'm pretty good.
He tells me that the first two weeks after the layoffs went really badly. Instead of
improving sales went down and Jason and Vincent both got
discouraged when a new catering partner brought them on and suddenly the numbers turned around. They
weren't selling anywhere close to the two thousand Bentos they needed to break even but they were moving in the
right
direction and that put Jason and Vincent back into their familiar roles.
Jason focusing on the positive trend. Vincent very aware of their shrinking bank account.
It was late March by this point they had enough money to last them another month
maybe do you think that you and Jason are on the same page right now about whether
Bento will survive.
I
mean I do I do worry about his level of optimism.
I mean I. It's
been I don't know certainly it's a whole year but
it's well maybe it
has been it's been a long time kind of like let's see what happens in the next two weeks let's see what happens in the
next two weeks. Let's see what happens in the next two weeks over and over like let's
just see how this plays
out and I don't want
you know I don't want him to play that out until the end. Like I don't I don't want people to come
in some random day and that's to say like sorry like we're out of money now that's the end
of it or to have applied cold people you know on a Saturday and I go we've decided not to
can you like don't come to work that's all I want to I want to end things.
Vincent has made a big decision. He's going to start looking for freelance work bench I won't be able to
pay him a salary any time soon and he can't work for free indefinitely. So he'll keep
maintaining Bento sap but he won't take on new projects. He won't be in the office much
anymore. Jason's OK with and since move. He understands it even
though he's making a different call he and Sharon are living on their tax refund and pretty soon
they'll be using the money they've saved for a house down
payment but with sales on the upswing it Bento Jason can't see stopping
now it sounds like you might run into the situation you've talked
about a couple of times which is
like you at some point have to decide like how long can you keep going with no salary.
That's a concern. What's you thinking about
that trying to think
about
if business and is able to you
know find something on the side it doesn't need to pay
salaries I think there's a decent chance
I could turn on a small salary for myself and then we can kind of cruise
along like that.
Part
of my analysis. Will need
to quit for sure.
Jason tells me things that improved enough that he thinks he can raise more money. He set a goal of a hundred thousand
dollars and his deadline is the last week in April and I'm not sure of Jason but put it this
way but to me it seems like this is it the last ditch effort
his final shot to turn things around at
Banta.
See it's Thursday right. Picking for money
e-mails
Tuesday. It's mid April now. Jason's walking home from work. He's reached out to
three of Benton's biggest
investors have received two responses for
those I guess I didn't expect it to be
seen this isn't going to be easy of all three had said yes it would have been easy
but by late April he still hasn't closed the
round three makes a desperate call to his landlord to see if he can put off paying next month's rent.
She says
yes. Jason tells Vinson about what's happening but at this point he's making the decisions on his
own then since freelance work is keeping him busy. He hasn't been a bento in weeks.
Jason and I check in again.
What is it about you that made you
say I don't know I I don't
discount sunk costs
enough explain that.
You know you're not like you know supposed to factor in some cost into your decisions right
so somebody who's can eliminate some cost from
their decision may have said yeah. Then it doesn't make sense to continue. So maybe
I have a hard time getting rid of some
cost but that's implying that you think you should've made a different decision by now.
Yeah sure. Yeah. If a year ago I asked myself Do I want to
be in one year. Let's say volume revenue whatever wise I would.
Of written down some big numbers and said
OK if we don't get to what number do you think we should quit.
And I guarantee you the number would have been higher than we currently
are but obviously you know despite that I still deciding like we have let's keep going.
Why is that I don't like I think about the business that we've built so I think
about the problems we're solving I think about the customers that we have and it's just you know it
feels it feels like a business that should continue to exist
and you know I'm proud of part of it.
Jason is still struggling to raise money but he tells me that the last few weeks have been the best ones he's
had at the company better than launch better than raising more than a million dollars right out of the
gate because he's built something that he believes can work. The kitchen is really
busy now just that morning there was a big catering order for two hundred thirty Bentos and then a rush to meet
the lunch deadline. Jason put on a hairnet and helped with the kale salad.
He tells me that startups can be sort of like fantasy businesses they spend a lot of money on
gross on getting customers or a big audience but really the best thing to do is figure out how to
build a real business one where all the numbers make sense.
Bento is not at that point yet every week the company still spends more than it earns
but now breaking even is just a matter of getting sales up another six hundred Bentos a
week and Jason thinks they'll be there a week and a half later I get a
message. Wednesday three
fifteen as of.
Two thirty nine pm our round is closed got the last
ten K. pushed so over one hundred
K.. It's Jason letting me know that he's pulled it off.
He's raised the money close that hundred thousand dollars around obviously
happy excited to keep to keep pushing on.
Obviously nervous about the other stuff. But that's I guess well I hope we're going
to sleep well tonight and start worrying about that
so there's money in the bank now but there is still a lot to worry about
tomorrow and the next day and the next their salaries to pay and bills
and deferred rent and beyond that there's a bigger worry about whether all of
this is worth it. How much longer should Jason keep pushing Bento
flounder again. Or maybe this will be
the moment that Jason and his investors have been waiting for the one that you look back on years from
now when Bento is a huge and memorable company when he and Sharon have traded the
Oakland apartment for an area home in San Francisco and when young
startup founders scan You Tube for videos of him talking about the early days.
Molly
Messick is a producer for our show coming up of scenes from the next episode
of start up after these words from our
sponsors
startup is brought to you by their desk the affordable adjustable standing desk solution with
very desk. You can go from sitting to standing in three seconds. It's really very easy very
desk ships free in the forty eight contiguous
states plus. If you don't love your very desk. You can return it for a full refund within thirty
days very desk covers return shipping and even send someone to pick it up to learn more
go to their desk dot com That's V.A.R. I
Desk dot com very desk work
elevated this episode of startup is brought to by Ford Motor Company A Company that's more
than a hundred years old and still pioneering new technology and Mobility
Solutions every day go to four dot com slash start up to learn
more startup season three is brought to you by militant militant is the easiest
way to send an e-mail newsletter mail to offers easy to use Dragon drop tools that help you
create email campaigns that match your style sign up for militants and send your e-mail newsletter
now at Milton dot. COM mail to send better e-mail.
We'll
be back in two weeks and.
Tonight when we'll hear from a founder who's getting ready to make one of the most important pitches
of his life.
The thing he's worrying about his
clothes shoes trustability
distorted places like places
just fifty or
higher in the Indian market
or so by commuter started.
I'm looking a bit Kirby.
But
this stage is a typical stop on a founder's path but this founders path has
been anything but typical That's coming up in two
weeks so I said at the top of the show that
we have something special for gimlet members. If you log in to the member section of our
website gimlet Media dot com you'll see a special bonus episode featuring
the co-founder of Reddit. Steve Huffman I talked to him as I was reporting the
twitch story and it was a super interesting conversation. I want to share bits of it with
you for those of you who aren't gimlet members. You can join on our website
again gimlet Media dot com One more thing we want to learn more
about you our listeners and we would love it if you took our brief survey go to
start up listener
club that C.L.U. for those who complete the survey your name will be
entered to win a free T. shirt.
Today's episode of startup is produced by Luke Malone it was edited by Alex Bloomberg.
Peter Clowney Caitlin Roberts. Bruce wall and a production assistant from
Simone pylon and Mark Phillips wrote and
performed our theme song build the buildings wrote and performed our special add music at.
No music by Matthew ball. John Kim Bros Tyler Strickland and the band hot
moms go.
Matthew bull mix the episode we had extra help from Austin Thompson to subscribe
to the podcast go to i Tunes or check out the gimlet media website Media
dot com You can false on Twitter
at podcast startup. Thanks for listening. We'll see you in two
weeks.